~~~
You do magic with sheer fucking force of will.

§ Sorcerer Meta Moves

With great power... ► This playbook is about just describing novel magic and having it happen in the game, so your moves are super open-ended. But in order to define your power with the same personal scale as the other PCs in this game, there are some restrictions. Please abide by their spirit and work with your GM so everybody has fun.

§ Sorcerer Resources
Will ► The overwhelming conviction that your magic should override the very laws of reality.

● 1. ▢ ▢ ▢ 
○ 2. ▢
○ 3. ▢
§ Sorcerer Aptitudes: Threads
These are the strands that a sorcerer weaves together to create their magic. Note that they have different max ratings. Not all threads are as easy to work, and none of them are as reliable as just getting your hands dirty.

○ Affecting an area ○ ► Weaving to affect a spatial area, its contents, or occupants.

○ Affecting at range ○ ► Weaving to affect something beyond arm’s reach. 

○ Affecting the living ○ ► Weaving to directly affect a living body, mind, or spirit.

○ 🗣Affecting the dead ○ ► Weaving to directly affect a once-living body or spirit.

○ Conjuring objects ○ ► Weaving to conjure an inanimate object or other organized matter.

○ Conjuring life ► Weaving to conjure living matter.

○ Conjuring elements ○ ► Weaving to conjure energetic classical elements.

○ Elemental kinetics ○ ► Weaving to move or shape energetic classical elements.

○ Reshaping energy ○ ► Weaving to move energy from one place or form to another.

○ Altering fundamentals ► Weaving to alter how some fundamental physical phenomenon works—gravity, chemical bonds, electromagnetism, the nuclear strong force, etc.

○ Creating illusion ○ ► You’re weaving to create an illusion or perception without physical substance or effect.

○ Altering time ► Weaving to alter the physical, forward flow of time.

△ 🗣Time travel ► Weaving to reverse time or move through it.

○ Accelerating entropy ○ ► Weaving to mimic or enhance the ravages of chaos.

○ Reversing entropy ► Weaving to slow or undo the ravages of chaos.

○ Transit ○ ► Weaving to move or connect something without it crossing intervening space.
§ Sorcerer Moves
Restore Will ► You restore 1 Will when you 🡕🡒 on any ⌞story move⌝.

Lose Will ► You lose 1 Will when you 🡓 on any ⌞story move⌝.

Weave magic ► You create and cast a magical effect defined by your creativity and mastery of the ⌞Threads⌝. You cannot make this move if you have 0 Will.

Describe what you want your weaving to do in defiance of reality’s edicts. This can be practically anything you can think of, but there are some rules:
    • weave magic on a personal, local, immediate scale.
    • target one “thing” at a time—that might be an area containing many occupants, but not 3 separate individuals.
    • you must directly perceive your target—not just something it’s part of or contained inside.
    • don’t get in a rut—try not to repeat yourself too much in the same scene.

Your effect ends if you no longer perceive your target, dawn breaks, or you ⌞weave magic⌝ again. When your effect ends, the logical changes, outcomes, and consequences caused by the effect do not reverse themselves. That building is still on fire, even if the spark is long faded.

Decide which Threads the effect depends on. If you’re unsure, ask the GM. You should rationalize creatively, but respect fiction and use common sense. Include every Thread that relates to the effect you’ve described, even if you haven’t bought that Thread. Try to stick to the part of the effect primarily in defiance of reality: you might weave to conjure fire, but it’s normal for fire to burn stuff.

From all the Threads your effect depends on, the one with the lowest rating is the ⌊weak thread⌋ for this effect. If there are multiple with the same low rating, it doesn’t matter; pick one. If no Thread seems to fit, your ⌊weak thread⌋ is ⌊−1⌋.

If you’re gonna ⌞fuck ‘em up⌝, you can do at most ⌊weak thread + 1⌋ harm—this means 0 harm if your weak thread is −1. If you can’t do enough harm to fit the injuries your description would cause, you’ll need to describe a less devastating effect.

When you weave magic to ⌞make a story move⌝, ⊞⌊weak thread⌋ for the story move.


